#word-of-the-day-eng :: meetup 02
===

##### 06 December 2016

###### Yaroslav Serhieiev, Bohdan Litvinov

---

# Examples

> *Contagious* diseases are spread by contact, while *infectious* diseases are spread by infectious agents.

---

# Definition

---

# Translations

---

# a beggar on horseback


> _Jill:_ Since Phil inherited all that money, all he does is go to parties and take drugs.
> _Jane:_ Yep. **Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.**

---

# a beggar on horseback

* [If a poor person becomes wealthy, he or she will quickly become corrupt.](http://idioms.thefreedictionary.com/Set+a+beggar+on+horseback,+and+he'll+ride+to+the+devil)
* [People who suddenly acquire wealth or power are likely to misuse it.](http://quotes.yourdictionary.com/author/quote/131871)

### Hypothesis 

[It comes from an old saying:](http://english.stackexchange.com/questions/115170/beggars-on-horseback)
> "If wishes were horses, then beggars could ride."

---

# pigeonholed

> You are about to go to them when suddenly there is a surprise attack and you find yourself **pigeonholed** against a burnt out vehicle.

> No, you've got her **pigeonholed** at this magazine when she's capable of so much more.

> I don't really like being **pigeonholed** into one field.

---

# pigeonholed

_n._
1. A small compartment or recess, as in a desk, for holding papers; a cubbyhole.
2. A specific, often oversimplified category.
3. The small hole or holes in a pigeon loft for nesting.

_tr.v._ **pi·geon·holed, pi·geon·hol·ing, pi·geon·holes**

1. To place or file in a small compartment or recess.
2. To classify mentally; categorize.
3. To put aside and ignore; shelve.

---

# pigeonholed

1. сущ.
  a) голубиное гнездо или отверстие, через которое могут пролететь голуби
  b) отделение для бумаг (в секретере, письменном столе)
  c) полочка, своё место; категория, класс (в классификации)
2. гл.
  а) раскладывать (бумаги) по ящикам; приклеивать ярлыки
  б) классифицировать, всесторонне анализировать
  в) навешивать ярлыки (предвзято)
  г) откладывать в долгий ящик

> Нет, ты удерживаешь её в этом журнале а ведь она способна на много большее.

> Просто я не люблю замыкаться в одной области...

---

# Examples

> There is no doubt it is an enemy vehicle, but you didn’t have time to see if the truck was *rigged* with a gunner on the back -and if there is you don’t want to be caught *in the open*.

---

# Examples

> The rebels have roughly 54 *dilapidated* trucks and 22 of them are *rigged* with guns in the back.

---

# Examples

> Considering how heavy the firepower was and the environment you are in, you *peg* the possibility of being shot at 50%.

---

# Examples

> As in our other scenarios, let’s *break this scenario apart* to see exactly what we are dealing with.

---

# Examples

> However, basic skills in this area are often *overlooked* and not taught properly. So, if you are keen *to brush up on* how to understand scenarios, keep reading!

---

# Examples

> You *pop your head out* to get a better look.

---

# Examples

> Doing this will help you _focus on what matters most_ and *disregard* the rest.

---

# Examples

> Remember, you can _write_ your question _out_ _rough_ and then *refine* it...

---

# Examples

> Now we have all three ingredients and can *plug them into* Bayes' formula!

---

# Examples

> Quora is just the kind of atmosphere where this phenomenon is able *to thrive*.

---

# Examples

> What *turns people off* about Quora?

---

# Examples

> Also, intellectual *braggery* still passes (and gets admired) here.

---

# Examples

> And don’t *get me started* on questions and answers *filed under* Religion…

---

# Examples

> ...invited to follow the writer’s blog on a link if you “want to *harness your potential* and *turn your life around*”

---

# Examples

> My grandmother, born in late 1800’s, was a *staunch* atheist.

---

# Examples

> During the last year of her life she was _bed bound_ and had had a couple of caretakers, including a very *devout* Christian woman who kept *pestering* her to “*repent*” or whatever it is you’re supposed to do *to suck up* to *deity* before you *pass on*.

---

# Examples

> Algorithms, as well as machine learning, are pieces of knowledge that tend *to withstand* over time.

---

# Examples

> there are a number of fantastic books that *delve* deeply into it.

---

# Examples

> *Apart from* his faith, Bayes had a deep love and interest in mathematics...

---

# Examples

> Bayes *became consumed with* figuring out ...

---

# Examples

> No, I'm sorry, that's a terrible *oversight*.

---

# Examples

> The Minister for women's affairs had been keen to *remedy* that *omission*.

---

# Examples

> Now, I shall *endeavor* to make you learn it by speaking _entirely_ in English.

---

# Examples

> I shall insist on chatting with you in English , even though you’re at the same level of English as my *toddler*.

---

# Examples

> But this frankly was a little *insipid* and uninteresting.

---

# Examples

> I *dabbled in* Spanish and Russian, but learned some basic techniques for studying other languages.

---

# Examples

> I think civilians are a *liability* and a *hindrance*.

---

# Examples

> Besides, he reminds me of you *in a lot of ways*.

---

# Examples

> And she doesn't even want *to cuddle* anymore.

---

# Examples

> Every coach knows, he has *to hitch his wagon* to a star.

---

# Examples

> *Top* - a toy for kids.

---

# Examples

> Paige thinks it's an *elaborate* _setup_.

---

# Examples

> You have a terrible *bedside manner*, you know.

---

# Examples

> Well, she must have something *to lure* a cold fish like Caesar.
> They design each *lure* to catch a specific fish.

---

# Examples

> If I *play my cards right*, I can *track him down*.

---

# Examples

> *Staying in* is so much better than *going out*.

---

# Examples

> I'm gonna go there now and see if he dug up anything.

---

# Examples

> Like my sister says, anyone can *stoop over and pick up nothing*.

---

# Examples

> That's the point... *to induce* the anxiety and fear.

---

# Examples

> Gone *AWOL* (Absent Without Official Leave)

---

# Examples

> What's more is that this guy is *hell-bent on* *bagging* *a bigfoot*.

---

# Examples

> Wasn't sure he *had the stomach* for this kind of thing.

---

# Examples

> You know my *attitude* towards him.

---

# Examples

> Don't *deflect* my question.

---

# Examples
> Students can also *opt* for a mix of the four standard subject combinations.
---

# Definition
> to make a choice; especially :  to decide in favor of something 
---

# Translations
выбрать;решить
---

# Examples
> I'll spend the rest of my days in quiet *contemplation*.

> We were so busy during the concert tour we did not have time to *contemplate* the natural beauty of the island.
---

# Definition
the act of thinking deeply about something

the act of looking carefully at something
---

# Translations
созерцать;рассматривать;размышляют над
---

# Examples
> And what *offhand* would you say is your problem?

> You were a bit *offhand* with her this afternoon
---

# Definition
Done or made without previous thought or preparation.
---

# Translations
навскидку;сразу;бесцеремонно
---

# Examples
> May I *inquire* as to the fate of my man Bronn?

> When I *inquired*, they told me she was not here.
---

# Definition
to ask about;to search into
---

# Translations
спросить;поинтересоваться;узнать
---

# Examples
> The police eventually located the *culprits*.

> The mechanic said the *culprit* of my car’s flapping noise was a *frayed* fan belt.
---

# Definition
one guilty of a crime or a fault;the source or cause of a problem
---

# Translations
виновник;преступник;
---

# Examples
>Books *pertaining* to the country's history.

>These duties *pertain* to the office of sheriff.
---

# Definition
to relate to someone or something

to have a connection to a person or thing
---

# Translations
касатся;относиться
---

# Examples
> A young *lass* lives in the house across the street.

> Get us two brown ales, *lass*.
---

# Definition
a young woman
---

# Translations
девушка; дамочка
---

# Examples
> A young *lass* lives in the house across the street.

> Get us two brown ales, lass.
---

# Definition
a young woman
---

# Translations
девушка; дамочка
---

# Examples
> Your empire is *crumbling*, my queen.

> The recipe calls for the herbs to be *crumbled*.
---

# Definition
to break into small pieces

to break down completely
---

# Translations
рухнуть;рассыпаться;разваливаться

---

# Examples
> That leaves the palace as the best opportunity for an *ambush*;

> We have reports of enemy soldiers *ambushing* civilians on this road;
---

# Definition
a trap in which concealed persons lie in wait to attack by surprise
---

# Translations
засада
---


---

# Thank you!
